a scenario on DAML script and DAML REPL. (#43)
digital-asset/daml-katacoda: testing-daml-models/daml-scripts/2_first_script.md

> Next to a fixed `operator` party we want to allocate a list of parties given as an argument to the
> `initialize` script. We want them to follow the operator and the operator should follow them back.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous step we have initialized the `operator` party. Next we will add a list of parties as the script's argument. These parties will be initilized and will follow the operator and the operator will follow them back.
```

Just a suggestion.

Author: Slightly improved my version.

As before, we will be using the `allocatePartyWithHint` function. Replace the initialize script
with:

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
initialize: [Text] -> Script ()
initialize initialParties = do
    operator <- allocatePartyWithHint "operator" (PartyIdHint "operator")

>     ps <- forA initialParties $ \partyStr -> do

Reviewer 2: `forA_` would be a bit simpler.

Author: we'll be using `ps` in a later step.

      allocatePartyWithHint partyStr (PartyIdHint partyStr)
    debug "done!"
</pre>

Easy! Scripts are just like usual DAML functions and follow the same syntax to declare arguments and
type signatures.

1. Now we get the other party names from the `initialParties` argument to the script. 

> 1. `forA: (Applicative m) => [a] -> (a -> m b) -> m [b]` starts a `for loop` that you can

Reviewer: Maybe add one more line between the two points as the way it renders it's hard to tell what's 1) and what's 2)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56260209/81648301-ca337d80-942e-11ea-94f9-b9335374b60a.png)

Author: added a blank line.

> use to map anything that returns an `Applicative` (such as `Script`) over an input list and returns

Reviewer: Do we need to mention here `Applicative` or is it OK if we omit it? It's another term the user needs to understand.

Author: I don't want to change the type signature of `forA`, since that's the way it's also in the docs.

the collected results. In fact, `forA` is just `mapA` with it's arguments flipped, but it's often a
bit more convenient to write when your lambda spans several lines.

To issue ledger updates, you can use the `createCmd` and `exerciseCmd` commands. These are the
equivalents for scripts to the usual `create` and `exercise` commands you use in updates. Let's
create `User` contracts for all allocated parties and have the `initialParties` follow the
`operator`.

Paste the following before the final `debug` line:
<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
    submit operator $ createCmd User with username = operator, following = ps
    forA_ ps $ \p -> do
      h <- submit p $ createCmd User with username = p, following = []
      submit p $ exerciseCmd h  Follow with userToFollow = operator
</pre>

> 

Reviewer: "When pasting the above code make sure it has the same indentation as `ps <-...``

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56260209/81649028-f7346000-942f-11ea-8a1e-fbdebac29c1d.png)
"

Maybe add something like this as indentation in DAML matters.

Reviewer: When going through it the second (and every next) time I got an error

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56260209/81650261-e8e74380-9431-11ea-9efc-130ce3c0c17f.png)

Couldn't run the example as it was popping up 🤷‍♂️Dunno how come it didn't popup the first time.

Author: I'll see if I can reproduce.

with:

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
initialize: [Text] -> Script ()
initialize initialParties = do
    operator <- allocatePartyWithHint "operator" (PartyIdHint "operator")
    ps <- forA initialParties $ \partyStr -> do
      allocatePartyWithHint partyStr (PartyIdHint partyStr)
    debug "done!"
</pre>

Easy! Scripts are just like usual DAML functions and follow the same syntax to declare arguments and
type signatures.

1. Now we get the other party names from the `initialParties` argument to the script. 

1. `forA: (Applicative m) => [a] -> (a -> m b) -> m [b]` starts a `for loop` that you can
use to map anything that returns an `Applicative` (such as `Script`) over an input list and returns
the collected results. In fact, `forA` is just `mapA` with it's arguments flipped, but it's often a
bit more convenient to write when your lambda spans several lines.

To issue ledger updates, you can use the `createCmd` and `exerciseCmd` commands. These are the
equivalents for scripts to the usual `create` and `exercise` commands you use in updates. Let's
create `User` contracts for all allocated parties and have the `initialParties` follow the
`operator`.

> Paste the following before the final `debug` line at the same indentation level as `ps <- ...`:
> <pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
>     submit operator $ createCmd User with username = operator, following = ps
>     forA_ ps $ \p -> do
>       h <- submit p $ createCmd User with username = p, following = []
>       submit p $ exerciseCmd h  Follow with userToFollow = operator
> </pre>
> 
> and add the following import under the line `module User where` to have the function `forA_` available:
> 
> <pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
> import DA.Foldable (forA_)
> </pre>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following import under the line `module User where` to have the function `forA_` available:

<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
import DA.Foldable (forA_)
</pre>

Next, paste the following before the final `debug` line at the same indentation level as `ps <- ...`:
<pre class="file" data-target="clipboard">
    submit operator $ createCmd User with username = operator, following = ps
    forA_ ps $ \p -> do
      h <- submit p $ createCmd User with username = p, following = []
      submit p $ exerciseCmd h  Follow with userToFollow = operator
</pre>
```

Just to avoid the error the appears if you first copy the code and then add the import.

Author: done
